Hackathon 2026: doc (#3212)
openturns/openturns: python/doc/theory/numerical_methods/least_squares_resolution.rst

and :math:`\matr{\Psi}`). More precisely, the normal equations are
always more badly conditioned than the original overdetermined system,
as their condition number is squared compared to the original problem:

.. math::

      \kappa(\matr{\Psi}^{\mbox{\scriptsize \textsf{T}}} \; \matr{\Psi}) \, \, = \, \, \kappa(\matr{\Psi})^2

As a consequence more robust numerical methods should be adopted.

**Method based on QR factorization**

It is shown that the matrix :math:`\matr{\Psi}` can be factorized as
follows:

.. math::

      \matr{\Psi} \, \, = \, \, \matr{Q} \; \matr{R}

where :math:`\matr{Q}` is a :math:`N`-by-:math:`P`-matrix with
*orthonormal* columns and :math:`\matr{R}` is a
:math:`P`-by-:math:`P`-upper triangular matrix. Such a *QR
decomposition* may be constructed using several schemes, such as
*Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization*, *Householder reflections* or *Givens
rotations*.

In this setup the least squares problem is equivalent to solving:

.. math::

      \matr{R} \; \vect{a} \, \, = \, \, \matr{Q}^{\mbox{\scriptsize \textsf{T}}} \; \vect{y}

This upper triangular system can be solved using backwards
substitution.

> The solving scheme based on Householder QR factorization leads to arelative error that is proportional to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solving scheme based on Householder QR factorization leads to a relative error that is proportional to:
```
